commit/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: commit
description: Create git commits from staged changes. Use when the user asks to commit, make a commit, git commit, save changes, or any variation of committing code. Triggers on requests like "commit this", "commit my changes", "/commit", or "make a commit".
---

# Commit

Create a git commit from staged changes with a generated message, confirmed by the user before execution.

## Workflow

1. **Check staged changes**

```bash
git diff --cached
```

If nothing is staged, inform the user and stop. Do NOT look at or consider untracked files.

2. **Generate commit message**

Analyze only the staged diff to produce a concise commit message (1-2 sentences) that describes the "why" not the "what". Use imperative mood (e.g., "Add", "Fix", "Update").

3. **Confirm with user**

Present the generated message and ask the user to confirm before committing. Example:

> Proposed commit message:
>
> `Add user authentication endpoint`
>
> Proceed with this commit?

Wait for explicit user approval. If the user provides an alternative message, use that instead.

4. **Commit**

```bash
git commit -m "<confirmed message>"
```

## Rules

- Never include `Co-Authored-By` lines.
- Never include `Generated by` or `Generated with` lines.
- Never consider untracked files — only use `git diff --cached` for context.
- Never stage files automatically — only commit what is already staged.
- Always confirm the message with the user before running `git commit`.
- Use a HEREDOC when the message contains special characters or newlines.

Commit message:

Update CLAUDE.md accuracy and add auto-memory step to commit skill

commit/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: commit
description: Create git commits from staged changes. Use when the user asks to commit, make a commit, git commit, save changes, or any variation of committing code. Triggers on requests like "commit this", "commit my changes", "/commit", or "make a commit".
---

# Commit

Create a git commit from staged changes with a generated message, confirmed by the user before execution.

## Workflow

1. **Check staged changes**

```bash
git diff --cached
```

If nothing is staged, inform the user and stop. Do NOT look at or consider untracked files.

2. **Update memory (if notable changes exist)**

Before generating the commit message, analyze the staged diff for notable changes worth remembering across sessions. Update the project's `MEMORY.md` file if any of the following are present:

- **New files/modules** — new components, services, utilities, or architectural additions
- **New dependencies** — packages added to package.json, Gemfile, requirements.txt, etc.
- **API changes** — new or modified endpoints, routes, or external integrations
- **Configuration changes** — new env vars, config files, build settings
- **Architectural patterns** — new design patterns, conventions, or structural decisions
- **Key learnings** — gotchas, workarounds, or constraints discovered during implementation

**How to update:**

- Read the existing `MEMORY.md` from the project's auto memory directory (path shown in system prompt as "persistent auto memory directory")
- Append or update entries concisely — use bullet points, keep each entry to 1-2 lines
- Organize by topic (e.g., "## Architecture", "## Dependencies", "## APIs")
- Remove outdated entries if the staged changes supersede them
- Keep total file under 200 lines (lines after 200 are truncated in system prompt)
- Do NOT add entries for trivial changes (typo fixes, formatting, minor refactors)

If no notable changes are detected, skip this step silently.

3. **Generate commit message**

Analyze only the staged diff to produce a concise commit message (1-2 sentences) that describes the "why" not the "what". Use imperative mood (e.g., "Add", "Fix", "Update").

4. **Confirm with user**

Present the generated message and ask the user to confirm before committing. If memory was updated, briefly mention what was recorded. Example:

> Memory updated: added new `git-worktree` skill to Architecture section.
>
> Proposed commit message:
>
> `Add git-worktree skill for parallel development`
>
> Proceed with this commit?

Wait for explicit user approval. If the user provides an alternative message, use that instead.

5. **Commit**

```bash
git commit -m "<confirmed message>"
```

## Rules

- Never include `Co-Authored-By` lines.
- Never include `Generated by` or `Generated with` lines.
- Never consider untracked files — only use `git diff --cached` for context.
- Never stage files automatically — only commit what is already staged.
- Always confirm the message with the user before running `git commit`.
- Use a HEREDOC when the message contains special characters or newlines.
